Different people have different objectives in their quest for fitness. To an athlete,
it's seconds shaved off a mile, or that extra burst of speed in the last minute of the
game. To a lawyer, it's alertness after hours of hard bargaining. To a housewife, a
dress two sizes smaller, or maybe just the sense of abundant well-being, the positive
outlook and regained youthfulness that comes from really being "fit".

No matter what your particular exercise aim may be, the most important thing is to
achieve it safely. After all, you want to gain your health, not lose it. That's why a
thorough physical examination should be the very first step on your road to fitness.

Emphasizing the importance of such an examination is the following tragic incident. On
July twentythird, nineteen ninety eight, a leading West Coast newspaper exploded a banner
headline: TWO MORE JOGGERS! Other newspapers across the country picked up the story.
Occurring shortly after a wave of enthusiasts had made jogging something of a nationwide
sport, the tragedy suddenly focused national concern on the problem of safety in exercise.

My phone rang almost constantly. Physicians and law people alike were anxiously asking
under what conditions exercise might be dangerous, and prominent doctors were wondering
out loud in newspapers and magazines whether perhaps the idea of exercise had been
oversold to the public.

In response to this widespread concern, I decided to investigate more closely the case
of the two joggers who had suffered fatal heart attacks during the exercise. Both, it
turned out had severe heart disease, and one of them had been told by a prominent West
Coast physician that the should under no circumstance engage in vigorous exercise. Yet,
contrary to medical advice, the man started jogging at a strenuous rate, mistakingly
believing that this would help him overcome his heart condition more quickly. Instead,
jogging at a hard pace strained his weak heart beyond its limits.

The one good thing growing out of this tragedy was the realization on the part of the
physician that anyone entering an exercise or physical conditioning program should have
a medical check up before starting. So before you embark on any exercise program, get
your doctor's approval.